- What are we at?
- Eight to nine.
- So still winning.
- For about ten more seconds.
You too?
Yeah. I just talked to Maggie.
What did she say?
Not much. Just gave me this.
Directions to the nearest
Commonwealth checkpoint.
Troopers left them
in case people change their minds.
- Yeah, a lot of people are.
- Yeah.
You'll be back, though, right?
Yeah, I think so.
Okay.
Hey, this is your shot.
You need an escort?
Why?
It's a long walk, you know?
You might get bored, that's all.
Um...
- We've got a rider coming.
- Who is it?
Nobody we know.
Hold where you are!
Hold or we will shoot!
He's been shot! Get help!
The devils, they're slaughtering them.
Liars.
You gotta go.
Yes.
Hey.
We're not going.
Maggie, he died begging for our help.
I understand it.
We're barely holding on as it is.
Someone we know must have sent him.
Could be from the Commonwealth or Georgie.
Or it could be a trap.
We go to help and leave the Hilltop
open to attack.
I don't think it's a trick.
He was scared. He wasn't lying.
Even if he wasn't,
we can't go up against another group
without the people to fight them.
We don't have that.
What happened to taking in
whoever was in need?
Being outnumbered
has never stopped you before.
Maybe it should have.
We're barely holding on.
It sounds like these people are, too.
That's exactly who my mother
would have targeted, and I helped.
I'm not letting it happen to someone else.
So you're not leaving?
I am. I'm just...
I have to help these people first.
You can take over at the halfway mark.
Mom, Mom.
How long this time?
- What do I always tell you?
- As long as it takes.
That's right. And you're gonna
hold down the fort while I'm gone.
Keep a perimeter. Stay on alert.
- You got it. Good luck.
- Thank you.
Take that for me.
Why don't you want their help?
The Commonwealth's.
Because we can get by without it.
Why do we have to just get by?
It's only temporary.
Easier isn't always better.
You know, before the fall, I lived
on a farm with my family and my dad.
One day, these corporate farm developers
started knocking on our door,
trying to buy us out.
And my dad kept saying no.
And one day this bad drought hit
and the developers started knocking again,
except this time they offered
three times what the farm was worth.
They knew we were in debt and desperate.
They also knew the drought would end,
the farm would become profitable again,
and all they had to do was outlast us.
They started dropping off crates
of food to help with the livestock.
And he would just let it sit there
on the porch and rot
so they'd see it
when the next shipment came.
He said that we were being tested.
And guess what happened.
The drought ended.
We got back on our feet.
And those developers
never bothered us again.
Why did your dad let the food rot?
If they'd seen us take it,
they would have known we needed them.
Never left us alone.
- But the cattle were hungry.
- We didn't lose any.
We stuck together and we made it through.
Yeah, you got by.
It's just...
Getting by is what I've been forced
to do my whole life.
And I was told that it makes
you stronger and wiser,
but it doesn't.
It hurts.
What would you have done?
Asked everyone what they wanted.
Instead of deciding for them.
Is that what I'm doing?
You think the Commonwealth knows better?
- Is that crazy to think?
- Yes.
Those people have not
been tested for ten years.
Do you want to be there when they are?
I just want things
to be the same every day.
Do you agree?
With most of it, yeah.
Whoa! Look out!
Knife slashed
right through the neck guard.
Shot between the armor gaps.
Hey!
It's Aaron.
But not only is it born of hate,
but from love and from friendship
and from fear.
And in Luke, 15:12,
Christ speaks
of a rich father's wayward son
that selfishly set off to distant lands
who squandered his riches
on decadence and wild living.
And then the son found his soul empty.
And he was in need.
And he went back to his father
and begged for forgiveness,
and his father embraced him,
for his son was dead and is now alive.
He was lost and now is found.
Now, there were a lot of stunned faces
when I asked all of you
to sit by a stranger today,
and I'm still seeing a lot of
awkwardness with the arrangement.
A lot of stiff backs,
clenched butt cheeks.
Why?
Those of you that were out there
in the wasteland,
you know from the people you found
from the ones you could rely upon
that it didn't matter that you were
strangers beforehand, did it?
You were forced to see the humanity
in each other,
and though not bound by blood,
these strangers became more than friends.
They became family.
Why is it that way out there,
but not that way in here?
Romans, 3:23.
"For all have sinned and fall short
of the glory of God."
Now, let me repeat that.
All of us have sinned.
And that is the very thread
that binds us together.
And if you strip yourselves
of the superficial labels...
"What do we do? Where do I live?
"How much money do I have?"
If you strip yourselves of that,
it will make you see
the person by your side
as you see yourself in the mirror.
The way we were before the world fell
cannot be the way we are moving forward.
We must always remember the thread,
for that is what makes us try.
It makes us forgive.
It makes us return from peril.
It makes us us.
It sounds like
you're blowing smoke up my ass.
No, you were great.
Though I was expecting a little
more fire and brimstone, I guess.
You look happy.
I think I might be.
So that there, that was...
No, it's uh, it's not an act.
In the beginning, I was just
going through the motions,
but then one day I just wasn't.
It was like a switch was flipped
and I could hear him again.
Yeah.
That hell we went through,
it almost feels like it wasn't real.
Like it was just
in a nightmare or something.
What about Alexandria?
Oh. Commonwealth is pouring
even more manpower
and resources into the rebuild.
But, uh, while that's getting finished up,
they've asked me to help out
with their new immigration initiative.
They didn't seem too keen
on immigrants when we came in.
They weren't.
After they heard that I worked
for an NGO back in the day,
they asked me to review
their intake policies.
Now we are reaching out
and bringing in people that need help.
The Lord's work.
Yeah.
Actually, that's, uh, that's why I'm here.
There's a group of about 40 people
holed up in an apartment complex
in the western border in Virginia.
We want to make first contact
and offer them help.
Some of the folks upstairs,
they thought it would be a good idea
if you tagged along.
Why me?
It's a religious group, so...
Any hostiles in the territory?
We'll have troops with us, just in case.
Also, my boss Carlson will be with us.
He's a little, uh... Well, you'll see.
But his heart's in the right place.
Uh, sorry to interrupt.
Carlson's ready when you are.
Oh. Thank you, Jesse.
New kid. We're training him.
What do you say?
What do you know about these people?
According to the scouts,
they're just a friendly group of settlers.
God, you feel that?
That rush.
That mix of dopamine
and adrenaline just...
It's just that anticipation
that we're going to change lives.
You and you, and even you, too, Jesse.
Today we're gonna make the world
just a little bit better
than it was yesterday.
I thought you said
these were friendly settlers.
It doesn't look friendly.
You don't think so?
No.
Okay. What if they aren't, hmm?
If they're angry,
that just means they're afraid.
But when they meet you, they won't be.
Man, I cannot wait
to watch you two do your thing.
Is he going in with us?
He usually does, yeah.
But he's not gonna do any of the talking,
and we'll have backup nearby.
Are you sure?
Hey, are they setting up camp?
- That they are.
- So they're not coming with us?
Mmm.
Better not spook the natives.
Don't worry. They're just a chirp away.
Sergeant Crowe, do you copy? Over.
Copy, sir. Over.
You see? It's all good.
Yeah. I'm not doing this.
Places like that usually have
some old man with a shotgun inside
just looking for an excuse
to kill some dumb ass
who stepped on his front lawn.
Practically screams "do not disturb."
Yeah, I agree.
Hey, is everything all right?
I'm not so sure about this.
Might be better to leave them alone.
Abort? Just because
of some pre-game jitters?
No, because your plan is shit
and I don't want to die. That's all.
I've done it before, we'll do it again.
What's the largest group you've found?
- Four.
- And there are 40 in there.
So?
So, with that many people,
all it takes is one nervous guy
with an itchy trigger finger
to set things off.
- I don't think you appreciate...
- No, no. Hold on. He's right.
- We've never dealt with a...
- Guys.
It's not up for discussion.
I need you to trust that
I know what I'm doing.
So let's go.
Fine.
Hey, I need you to wear that.
It's part of your, uh, costume.
This is how this is going to go.
Hello. My name is Aaron.
We come from a community
called the Commonwealth.
We'd like to extend our friendship.
Our people left these
where you would find them.
Since they're all gone,
I'm assuming you did.
The chicken's a little rubbery,
but does the job.
We have more back at our camp,
if you'd like.
Is there anyone I could speak with
face to face?
Weapons.
Oh. Uh...
It's kind of a bitch to take off.
Just the four of you?
There's a group of peacekeepers nearby
waiting for us to check in.
Sounds scary.
Can't be too safe now, can we?
Last door to the right.
What's down there?
Seats.
I'm Aaron. And like I said outside,
we come from a community
called the Commonwealth, and it's...
Well, it's a bit like the old world.
Fifty thousand people live there.
We have a functioning government,
protective walls, housing for everyone,
restaurants, two movie theaters...
Soldiers and churches, too,
I take it, eh, Father?
Did you lose your collar?
Wanted you to see who I was
before learning what I was.
Hmm.
Okay.
Let's say this place is like the old world
and they do have a church,
then they have to have hookers, too.
Right? And gambling.
Shit side of town where addicts
swap needles with runaways.
You got all that, too?
I haven't seen any of that.
Can I get my bag back?
I'd like to show you something.
Now...
That's where we live.
Whenever people see those photos,
they want to live there, too.
You'd just let us in? That easy?
No, it's not easy at all.
Actually, uh, there's a screening process.
An audition.
Well, let me get my tap dancing shoes.
Where is this, uh, Commonwealth located?
- He can't tell you that.
- Why?
Because you say so?
Yeah, that's right.
Then why am I talking to him?
Do me a favor, fellas.
Turn around, look in that back corner.
Those are raiders, murderers, rapists
and a few cannibals.
All of them sat in the same seats
you're sitting in right now.
Most were wolves dressed as sheep,
all of them meant my people harm, so...
Mr. Head Wolf, if you know where I live,
and I don't know where you live,
how dumb would that be
for me to let you go?
What's your name?
Toby Carlson.
Asses stay in the goddamn chairs!
- Get on your goddamn knees!
- Okay.
Answer the question.
How dumb would I be to let you go
when you know where my home is?
It'd be dumb, okay.
It'd be dumb.
Yes, it would!
You know, you remind me
of old Billy Johnson.
Billy came just a few years ago...
...with promises of great wealth
and prosperity in a land far away.
But Billy wasn't going to bring us
to any promised land.
Billy just wanted
to get us out in the open
so his raiders could thoroughly kill us.
Billy wound up on the shelf
because he thought I was stupid.
Do you think I'm stupid, too?
No, no, no, no, no. I do not...
'Cause I've got plenty of room
on the shelf right next to Billy!
I don't want to be on the shelf,
and I don't think you're stupid, okay?
Show me where your raiding party is,
or I'm going to start
dropping bodies on the floor.
Starting with him.
Hey! Do we look like raiders to you?
Wolves dressed as sheep, speaking lies.
None of you seem to have any idea
what my responsibilities are
to this place and to my people.
Has it occurred to any of you
that they have entrusted me
with their very souls?
Why did you come here? What do you want?
Exactly. What do you have
that we would want?
This place is a shit hole.
Why would we want it?
The meat. You want the meat.
You think we're cannibals?
Cannibals who came in
with prepackaged MREs?
That's what you're going with?
All we've done
is given you food and water.
You aren't starving right now
because of us.
Is that real, or is that a lie?
You know what else is real?
The soldiers in those photos.
If we don't get back, they'll come in here
- and kill all of you.
- Or nobody dies. Okay?
You save yourself and your people
by letting us go.
And we will never come back here again.
And we will never bother you.
I promise that. Okay?
What a day.
What a goddamn day.
You will leave here,
you will never come back...
- What did you do?
- My job.
- He was gonna let us go.
- Shut up!
Keep him hostage.
Lock this door.
I'll be back when it's safe.
Yeah?
Hey, bud. I got your call.
What's up?
Uh, no. Four years sober next month.
What is wrong?
You know how I got Milton to agree
to this whole communal project
with these hick towns down in Virginia?
Yeah.
So she's released
a lot of resources for me,
and I used some of them to send out
a convoy full of supplies
for that other thing.
Convoy didn't check in last week,
so I sent out scouts to see what happened.
It was hijacked.
Troopers guarding it all dead.
Oh, God.
Who was it?
Tracks led to an apartment complex
where some group is holed up.
- Leader dresses like a general.
- Another warlord.
Followers are religious, too.
- Mass on Tuesdays and Sundays.
- Cute.
And they've got your guns now,
and the cargo, too, I take it.
Okay. What am I missing?
It's just some warlord. Snuff him out.
Assume the worst,
that the guns are pointing
out of those top floors
in all directions. I send in a squad,
they get cut down
before they hit the door.
Then don't send a squad, send a company,
then raze the whole building.
I ask for 100 troops,
there's no way Milton doesn't notice.
"What happened, Lance?
"This seems like quite the misfire,
Lance."
No. I need a surgical solution.
Oh, man. I don't do that anymore, Lance.
Come on.
I need the former CIA guy
who helped root out disobedient
shits from here back in the day.
I need an assassin.
Listen, I like being retired.
I get up, I meditate,
then I get to go out
and find people who need help
and give them a second chance.
It's Zen, it feels great.
And it can be taken from you.
Are you, um, tired of living, Lance?
Hmm?
Most of the dead troopers
are kids in their 20s.
That's on me. I need to make it right.
Okay. Okay.
What are you thinking?
- How's Aaron working out?
- He's great.
He instantly connects with people.
Makes my job easy.
Great. Do you know
about his buddy, the priest?
Stokes.
Oh.
Okay. Okay. So we go in
like we're making first contact,
and then since they are religious...
Priest gets their guard down,
they let you in.
Go see the big chief
and then do what you do.
And what about when things turn
and I have to tell them what's what?
They'll fall in line. Everyone does.
Sweep the rear.
The guns and the cargo you hijacked,
the ones that you massacred
my soldiers to get to.
Where are they?
I've got no idea
what you're talking about.
Three sets of tracks
led back here from there.
You want to try again?
That caravan...
Yeah, we... We found it like that.
You just lied to me.
Hey, hey! Stop, stop!
Cuff him.
Hey, dickless.
If I found those weapons,
don't you think I...
You made the shelf, warlord.
Top shelf, dead center. How's that sound?
Right above Billy.
Ooh! Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Hey, hey, where'd you go, huh?
All that talk and you died so quick.
Don't you look at me like that.
He's a damn animal.
We are supposed to be helping people.
We are. This is the other side of it.
Snuffing out threats.
This is how we make the world safe.
Hold him.
Pop him.
Oh. Interesting.
Come on. Let's go.
- Can we follow him?
- Sir!
I turn my back for one goddamn minute!
Get me my armor.
He was a wolf,
just like their leader said.
You think he was lying
about the stolen shipments?
I don't know.
What do the Commonwealth
want with all those guns?
This the best way in?
Yeah. Where'd you get that?
You gave it to the guy who rode
into Hilltop.
No, I didn't.
Then who did?
Whoa. Easy, girl.
Don't move.
How many of you are there?
- Twelve.
- What are they armed with?
Machine guns.
I didn't know. I didn't know.
What's it look like?
A lot dead. Guy in charge
is arguing with two others,
a priest and a guy
with a spiked ball for an arm.
- Shit. Gabriel and Aaron.
- You know them?
They didn't know either.
We come from a place
called the Commonwealth.
- This isn't what I signed up for.
- Shut up.
Mmm-hmm.
There's a community right here.
You ask for Maggie, no one else.
You tell her Gabriel
and Aaron are in trouble.
Go. Go.
Uh-huh.
This is the other side of it.
Snuffing out threats.
This is how to make the world safe.
- Negan?
- Gabe.
Interesting.
Ain't you coming? We gotta go.
- We gotta go.
- We can't leave him.
You go out there, we all die. Come on.
Sir!
I turn my back for one goddamn minute!
Residents of the complex,
you have been deemed enemies
of the Commonwealth.
One of you has stolen from us.
That cannot stand.
Bad news is your warlord is dead.
Good news is you still
can make things right.
Give us what's ours and we'll leave.
That'll be that.
- Where are the weapons?
- I don't know.
Then ask them quickly.
Gabe, if she says they don't have them,
they don't have them.
You don't understand.
I'm praying that you did steal them,
because without them, we're dead.
He's not gonna let any of us
leave here alive.
Where are my weapons?
I don't know.
- You really don't, do you?
- No.
Okay, I believe you.
And how about you?
Mmm.
Please, don't. No, no, no.
Your people have let you down.
Hit each room
and kill anyone who won't talk.
Copy that.
What we need to do now is stick together.
You can forget about giving up
or begging for forgiveness.
Ian's dead,
but he wasn't our first leader.
He wasn't what kept us together
this long. We did.
And we did it
by working together as a family.
And right now our family's
scattered all over this building.
But you know what?
We know this place better
than the assholes in our house do.
We're coming out of this on top.
So that was, um... that's pretty good.
They took out our best.
Yeah, but they needed to hear it.
Hodges, come in.
Is the east end clear?
Hodges, do you copy?
Is the east end...